README.md, before:

# Daktela URL Scheme Handler for macOS

> Automatically register [Daktela](https://www.daktela.com/) as the default handler for `tel:` and `callto:` URL schemes on macOS.

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![macOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-10.10+-blue.svg)](https://www.apple.com/macos/)
[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-13%2F13%20passing-brightgreen.svg)](run-tests.sh)

---

## 🎯 What This Does

When you click phone links like `tel:123456789` or `callto:user@example.com` anywhere on your Mac (email, browser, etc.), they'll automatically open in Daktela instead of FaceTime.

**Before:** Phone links open in FaceTime 📱  
**After:** Phone links open in Daktela 🎉

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

### Prerequisites

1. **Install Daktela** from [daktela.com](https://www.daktela.com/)
2. **Launch it once** (registers the app with macOS)
3. Then run this script

### Installation

```bash
# Download the script
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/daktela-url-handler.git
cd daktela-url-handler

# Make executable
chmod +x daktela-callto-register.sh

# Run it
./daktela-callto-register.sh
```

### Verify It Works

```bash
# Click these links or run in terminal:
open tel:123456789
open callto:user@example.com
```

Both should now open in Daktela! 🎉

---

## 📖 Usage

### Basic Usage (Auto-detect)

```bash
./daktela-callto-register.sh
```

The script will automatically find Daktela and register it.

### Custom App Name

If your Daktela has a different name:

```bash
APP_NAME="Daktela Desktop" ./daktela-callto-register.sh
```

### Custom Bundle ID

If you know the bundle ID:

```bash
BUNDLE_ID=com.daktela.v6 ./daktela-callto-register.sh
```

### Dry Run (Preview Changes)

See what would change without making actual changes:

```bash
DRY_RUN=1 ./daktela-callto-register.sh
```

---

## 🔧 How It Works

The script modifies macOS Launch Services preferences to register Daktela as the default handler for telephone URL schemes. It:

1. **Finds Daktela** - Uses AppleScript and Spotlight to locate the app
2. **Validates** - Checks that Daktela is actually installed
3. **Registers** - Updates Launch Services preferences (user-scope only)
4. **Verifies** - Confirms the changes were applied correctly

**No sudo required!** All changes are user-scoped.

---

## ✨ Features

- ✅ **Automatic detection** - Finds Daktela without manual configuration
- ✅ **Safe** - User-scope only, no admin privileges needed
- ✅ **Idempotent** - Safe to run multiple times
- ✅ **Verifiable** - Shows what was changed
- ✅ **Reversible** - Can be undone (see below)
- ✅ **Cross-environment** - Works in SSH, cron, interactive shells
- ✅ **Well-tested** - 100% test coverage (13/13 tests passing)

---

## 🧪 Testing

Run the test suite to verify everything works:

```bash
./run-tests.sh
```

All 13 tests should pass:
- ✅ Bundle ID validation
- ✅ App detection (AppleScript & Spotlight)
- ✅ Idempotency
- ✅ Dry-run mode
- ✅ SSH/cron environment compatibility
- ✅ Security (injection prevention)
- And more...

---

## ❓ Troubleshooting

### "Unable to resolve Daktela bundle ID"

**Solution:** Make sure Daktela is installed and launched at least once.

```bash
# Check if Daktela is installed
open -a "Daktela"

# If it opens, find the bundle ID
osascript -e 'id of app "Daktela"'

# Use explicit bundle ID
BUNDLE_ID=com.daktela.v6 ./daktela-callto-register.sh
```

### Changes Don't Take Effect

**Solution:** Log out and back in, or restart Finder/Dock:

```bash
killall Finder
killall Dock
```

### Revert to Default (FaceTime)

**Solution:** Unregister Daktela:

```bash
duti -s com.apple.FaceTime tel all
duti -s com.apple.FaceTime callto all
```

Or point to another app of your choice.

---

## 🔒 Security & Privacy

- **User-scope only** - No system-wide changes, no sudo needed
- **No network calls** - Everything runs locally
- **No data collection** - Script doesn't send any data anywhere
- **Open source** - Full transparency, audit the code yourself
- **Input validation** - Bundle IDs validated for security
- **Non-destructive** - Uses `-seed` not `-reset` for Launch Services

**Security audit:** No vulnerabilities found. All injection attacks blocked.

---

## 📋 Requirements

- **macOS 10.10+** (tested on 10.15+, works on macOS 14+)
- **Daktela app** installed and launched once
- **Python 3** (built-in on macOS 10.15+)
- **Optional:** [duti](https://github.com/moretension/duti) for cleaner operation
  ```bash
  brew install duti
  ```

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions welcome! Here's how:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing`)
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests (`./run-tests.sh`)
5. Commit (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
6. Push (`git push origin feature/amazing`)
7. Open a Pull Request

Please ensure:
- ✅ All tests pass
- ✅ Code follows existing style
- ✅ Security best practices maintained

---

## 📝 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

**TL;DR:** Free to use, modify, and distribute. No warranty provided.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Inspired by macOS Launch Services documentation
- Uses [duti](https://github.com/moretension/duti) when available
- Built with ❤️ for the Daktela community

---

## 📚 Additional Documentation

For detailed information:
- [INSTALLATION.md](INSTALLATION.md) - Detailed installation guide
- [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) - Version history and changes

---

## 🆘 Support

Having issues? Here's how to get help:

1. **Check the troubleshooting section above** ☝️
2. **Run in dry-run mode** to see what would happen: `DRY_RUN=1 ./daktela-callto-register.sh`
3. **Run tests** to diagnose issues: `./run-tests.sh`
4. **Enable debug output**: `bash -x ./daktela-callto-register.sh`
5. **Open an issue** on GitHub with debug output

---

## ⭐ Show Your Support

If this script saved you time, give it a ⭐ on GitHub!

---

**Made with ❤️ for productivity** | [Report Bug](../../issues) | [Request Feature](../../issues)

Commit message:

Final release: VBScript-only Windows installer with Store app support
- Remove PowerShell dependency - pure VBScript solution
- Automatically detects traditional exe and Microsoft Store apps
- Simplified one-click installer
- Consolidated documentation (2 user guides, 2 technical guides)
- Removed unnecessary temporary files
- Production ready for end users

README.md, after:

# Daktela URL Scheme Handler

> Automatically register [Daktela](https://www.daktela.com/) as the default handler for `tel:` and `callto:` URL schemes on **macOS** and **Windows**.

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![macOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-10.10+-blue.svg)](https://www.apple.com/macos/)
[![Windows](https://img.shields.io/badge/Windows-10%2B-0078D4.svg)](https://www.microsoft.com/windows/)
[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-13%2F13%20passing-brightgreen.svg)](run-tests.sh)

## 📦 Platform Support

- **macOS:** Fully supported (Bash + Python)
- **Windows:** Fully supported (VBScript, no PowerShell needed)

---

## 🎯 What This Does

When you click phone links like `tel:123456789` or `callto:user@example.com` anywhere on your Mac (email, browser, etc.), they'll automatically open in Daktela instead of FaceTime.

**Before:** Phone links open in FaceTime 📱  
**After:** Phone links open in Daktela 🎉

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

### Prerequisites

1. **Install Daktela** from [daktela.com](https://www.daktela.com/)
2. **Launch it once** (registers the app with macOS)
3. Then run this script

### Installation

```bash
# Download the script
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/daktela-url-handler.git
cd daktela-url-handler

# Make executable
chmod +x daktela-callto-register.sh

# Run it
./daktela-callto-register.sh
```

### Verify It Works

```bash
# Click these links or run in terminal:
open tel:123456789
open callto:user@example.com
```

Both should now open in Daktela! 🎉

---

## 📖 Usage

### macOS

**For users:** See [macOS_USER_GUIDE.md](macOS_USER_GUIDE.md)

```bash
./daktela-callto-register.sh
```

### Windows

**For users:** See [Windows_USER_GUIDE.md](Windows_USER_GUIDE.md)

1. Double-click: `Install-Daktela-Handler.vbs`
2. Click "Yes" when prompted for admin access
3. Test with: `test-links.html`

That's it! 🎉

### Custom App Name

If your Daktela has a different name:

```bash
APP_NAME="Daktela Desktop" ./daktela-callto-register.sh
```

### Custom Bundle ID

If you know the bundle ID:

```bash
BUNDLE_ID=com.daktela.v6 ./daktela-callto-register.sh
```

### Dry Run (Preview Changes)

See what would change without making actual changes:

```bash
DRY_RUN=1 ./daktela-callto-register.sh
```

---

## 🔧 How It Works

The script modifies macOS Launch Services preferences to register Daktela as the default handler for telephone URL schemes. It:

1. **Finds Daktela** - Uses AppleScript and Spotlight to locate the app
2. **Validates** - Checks that Daktela is actually installed
3. **Registers** - Updates Launch Services preferences (user-scope only)
4. **Verifies** - Confirms the changes were applied correctly

**No sudo required!** All changes are user-scoped.

---

## ✨ Features

- ✅ **Automatic detection** - Finds Daktela without manual configuration
- ✅ **Safe** - User-scope only, no admin privileges needed
- ✅ **Idempotent** - Safe to run multiple times
- ✅ **Verifiable** - Shows what was changed
- ✅ **Reversible** - Can be undone (see below)
- ✅ **Cross-environment** - Works in SSH, cron, interactive shells
- ✅ **Well-tested** - 100% test coverage (13/13 tests passing)

---

## 🧪 Testing

Run the test suite to verify everything works:

```bash
./run-tests.sh
```

All 13 tests should pass:
- ✅ Bundle ID validation
- ✅ App detection (AppleScript & Spotlight)
- ✅ Idempotency
- ✅ Dry-run mode
- ✅ SSH/cron environment compatibility
- ✅ Security (injection prevention)
- And more...

---

## ❓ Troubleshooting

### "Unable to resolve Daktela bundle ID"

**Solution:** Make sure Daktela is installed and launched at least once.

```bash
# Check if Daktela is installed
open -a "Daktela"

# If it opens, find the bundle ID
osascript -e 'id of app "Daktela"'

# Use explicit bundle ID
BUNDLE_ID=com.daktela.v6 ./daktela-callto-register.sh
```

### Changes Don't Take Effect

**Solution:** Log out and back in, or restart Finder/Dock:

```bash
killall Finder
killall Dock
```

### Revert to Default (FaceTime)

**Solution:** Unregister Daktela:

```bash
duti -s com.apple.FaceTime tel all
duti -s com.apple.FaceTime callto all
```

Or point to another app of your choice.

---

## 🔒 Security & Privacy

- **User-scope only** - No system-wide changes, no sudo needed
- **No network calls** - Everything runs locally
- **No data collection** - Script doesn't send any data anywhere
- **Open source** - Full transparency, audit the code yourself
- **Input validation** - Bundle IDs validated for security
- **Non-destructive** - Uses `-seed` not `-reset` for Launch Services

**Security audit:** No vulnerabilities found. All injection attacks blocked.

---

## 📋 Requirements

- **macOS 10.10+** (tested on 10.15+, works on macOS 14+)
- **Daktela app** installed and launched once
- **Python 3** (built-in on macOS 10.15+)
- **Optional:** [duti](https://github.com/moretension/duti) for cleaner operation
  ```bash
  brew install duti
  ```

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions welcome! Here's how:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing`)
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests (`./run-tests.sh`)
5. Commit (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
6. Push (`git push origin feature/amazing`)
7. Open a Pull Request

Please ensure:
- ✅ All tests pass
- ✅ Code follows existing style
- ✅ Security best practices maintained

---

## 📝 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

**TL;DR:** Free to use, modify, and distribute. No warranty provided.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Inspired by macOS Launch Services documentation
- Uses [duti](https://github.com/moretension/duti) when available
- Built with ❤️ for the Daktela community

---

## 📚 Additional Documentation

For detailed information:
- [INSTALLATION.md](INSTALLATION.md) - Detailed installation guide
- [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) - Version history and changes

---

## 🆘 Support

Having issues? Here's how to get help:

1. **Check the troubleshooting section above** ☝️
2. **Run in dry-run mode** to see what would happen: `DRY_RUN=1 ./daktela-callto-register.sh`
3. **Run tests** to diagnose issues: `./run-tests.sh`
4. **Enable debug output**: `bash -x ./daktela-callto-register.sh`
5. **Open an issue** on GitHub with debug output

---

## ⭐ Show Your Support

If this script saved you time, give it a ⭐ on GitHub!

---

**Made with ❤️ for productivity** | [Report Bug](../../issues) | [Request Feature](../../issues)
